To extra reducers has two syntaxes.
One is where you can just type in like,
some action and
put in- State and action.
And this will work, this will basically
match it against any other things,
you could actually take that
like task.action.assign to in
the same way you're dispatching it.
You can also plug it in
as a key in here and
it'll totally work, the recommendation
is to use the functional syntax.
And this is mostly, should you switch
over to TypeScript, is easier to do
type inference functions returning then
what exactly a key in an object was.
So let's do that syntax.
We'll see the other one later as well.
And so in extra reducers, we get
a function and it gets this builder.
And this builder is
actually super powerful.
We're not gonna get into
everything with it, but
with this builder you can add cases to it.
So I can do a builder and
I can say I wanna
add the case of
tasksSlice.actions.assignToUser.
And okay cool, if this reducer hears
of any action from the other slice
over there, here's what I want you to do.
Again will hit the state and the action.
And this one, we could just literally,
this is no different than any
other reducers that we've written.
This one's gonna be a little more
complicated because the JavaScript logic
is more complicated.
Because if you look at the task IDs,
it's an array,
on the individual task,
a task can belong to one user.
So it's just setting a string
to be a different number.
Here not only do we want to push the task
ID onto the humans task IDs array,
we also wanna remove it
out from anyone else.
So we need to iterate all the humans and
say,
if you're the human we're looking for,
you get a task ID.
Otherwise if you had it in there,
we're taking it out of here, right?
So the only complicated part here is
a few additional lines of JavaScript.
But the ability to create slices that
can listen to actions from other
slices exists pretty simply in this
extra reducers property here as well.
And so we'll just say for, const humans or
human of this case state really.
So go through all the humans.
And if you're the human we're looking for,
so
if your human Id is the one
that task was assigned to.
So action payload.humanId.
Cool we're gonna push it onto your array.
[COUGH] .taskId, and if you're not,
we use a good friend filter
to get you out of there.
Human.taskIds.filter.
This will be the task Id and
we basically want to sell just
do I do just keep it clear.
So let's go through all the Ids.
We'll say.
Cool if the Id is not the one,
we're looking for.
Very similar to what we did before.
It's also totally possible to
write like a helper function for
some of this as well, but I wanna keep
it as regular JavaScript as possible.
So now they should be able to kind of
switch in between the different humans.
Let's go ahead and
we do need to wire up the action as well.
I believe, so
let's go to the select human.
This implement me,
we're gonna do the dispatch to and
we'll get the humans based on this.
And then the task Id as well.
So let's say we'll do dispatch and
we're gonna do
tasksSlice.actions.assignToUser.
And the human Id it's gonna
be event.target.value.
And the task Id is gonna be the one
we are the task Id [INAUDIBLE]
That should do the trick.
Let's take a look at it.
So now I should be able to assign one.
So I got to refresh.
Didn't work.
Let's see what we got.
Cannot set property assigned to undefined.
It looks like we didn't
parse the right one in.
Because it's supposed to be task Id.
So Marc is now in charge ordering
energy drinks and he's done.
Right, I felt like he could
be trusted with that task.
And so now we can actually manage
the state between two different slices by
using this extra reducers and the builder.
The builder has add case it also has add
matcher which allow you to look for like
just sub strings within an action type
as well, which is incredibly powerful.
We're gonna take a five minute break and
then we're gonna talk about,
actually hitting API's and
asynchronous actions and then yeah.
Okay, got a question for me?
>> Yeah, can you go back to that?
One page where you were \,there you go or
actually.
In your slices, it sounds like,
I don't know maybe I'm just
misunderstanding this but it kind
of sounds like you're listening and
then doing something based on that event.
>> I really might misunderstand
this though, am sorry.
>> That's actually completely right,
right?
Like kind of,
when we're just writing our reducers
just regular all JavaScript functions.
We could just write conditionals and
we could just check to see every
action flew through every reducer,
the thing about Redux toolkit is it's
automatically creating the actions and
setting up the reducer for
the things that it knows about, right.
Extra reducer kind of gives us back that
functionality to add additional cases up
to this reducer object, to say like cool
not only do we care about userslice.add,
I also want you to listen for
test slice actions assigned to user
because you care about that too.
And here's what you do, right?
Because in regular Redux, under the hood,
every action flows through every reducer,
but Redux toolkit by trying to hide a lot
from us doesn't immediately have
the ability to know about that.
So the extra reducers and
this function basically is trying to
build back some of the functionality
we had before Redux toolkit,
where we could basically listen
to any action that flew through.
So every action officially flows through
this extra reducers, we'd say like, okay,
I care about this one.
And I wanna add it to things
I care about as well and
the rest of the actions will just
flow through and not do anything.
So yeah, effectively we're
subscribing in a way and so for
every reducers subscribe to everything,
we're just kind of declaring where
we care and where we don't care.
>> Is the only purpose for
using extra reducers like for
some events,
side effects the ones like for
example, this one is related to tasks.
So it is a separate reducer.
So it is a side effect for
humans here and for some,
like civic actions as well, yeah.
>> Yes and, yeah it's a connections which
we're going to get to in a second is yes
and, right.
Basically reducers can handle
anything that reducers makes.
So extra reduces for,
like we made add in here.
So the only thing that this section
knows about is how to deal with ad.
If I go back to the task slice, the only
thing that's a task slice is built
in to deal with is the stuff that it made.
Anytime you want to deal with
an action that like wasn't made in
this reducers object,
it has to go into extra reducers.
Right, so for instance, if this task
slash toggle didn't happen to overlap
with this toggle over here, I would have
to put it into extra reducers, right.
So if we like rename this in any way,
I'd have to get that case to manage
the task state in extra reducers instead.
This one just happens to match
up with toggle, so it works.
But if this was called like, I don't know,
toggle twice or something like that,
which doesn't make any sense,
I would have to add it to extra reducers
because it wasn't made by the slice.
It's not handled by the slice, so
it has to get handled extra reducers.
So that does affect things
made by other slices.
It does affect asynchronous
actions that get fired.
Those all fall under the umbrella of
things that weren't explicitly defined in
this reducers object,
has to happen in extra reducers